docs(lep): volume offline rebuilding (#10585)
longhorn/longhorn: enhancements/20250310-volume-offline-rebuilding.md

## Summary

This enhancement adds support for offline replica rebuild functionality for Longhorn volumes. It will allow rebuilding replicas while the volume is detached, enhancing the volume availability and reliability.

### Related Issues

- https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/8443

## Motivation

### Goals

- User can perform volume rebuilding when volumes are detached.
- User can cancel the offline replica rebuild process.

## Proposal

### User Stories

- Users want to rebuild replicas while the volume is offline to ensure maintain data redundancy.
- Users want to start a workload with the volume when the volume is in offline replica rebuild process.

### User Experience In Detail

#### Trigger Volume Offline Rebuilding

When users want to rebuild a volume detached:

- By the Longhorn UI
  1. Access the Longhorn UI and navigate to the `Volume` page.
  2. Select the volume that needs offline replica rebuilding.
  3. Click on the `Operation` dropdown and choose `Offline Replica Rebuild`.
  4. The rebuilding volume process will be triggered, and the volume will be attached.
  5. After all replicas are health, the volume will be detached.

- By CLI

>   1. Modify the `volume.Status.OfflineRebuildState` to `initiating`.

Author: Agree. I will remove the CLI part.

>You can try to update a volume status via kubectl. I don't think it will have any effect.

The "status" fields can be modified by the `kubectl edit` command with the option `--subresource=status` but as you mentioned, we should not do this kind of operation.

>   1. Modify the `volume.Status.OfflineRebuildState` to `initiating`.

Reviewer: Then what will happen from a resource perspective when users click on the `Operation` dropdown and choose `Offline Replica Rebuild`? Will the API layer directly add an entry for VolumeAttachment.Spec?

>   1. Modify the `volume.Status.OfflineRebuildState` to `initiating`.

Author: Introduce a new field 'Voluem.Spec.OfflineRebuild' and it will be true if users click on the Operation dropdown and choose `Offline Replica Rebuild`.

  | API | Input | Output | Comments | HTTP Endpoint |
  | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
  | Update | N/A | err error | Trigger volume offline rebuilding | **POST** `/v1/volumes/{VolumeName}?action=offlineRebuild` |
  | Update | N/A | err error | Cancel volume offline rebuilding | **POST** `/v1/volumes/{VolumeName}?action=cancelOfflineRebuild` |

```golang
  type OfflineRebuildState string

  const (
    OfflineRebuildStateEmpty      = OfflineRebuildState("")
    OfflineRebuildStateInitiating = OfflineRebuildState("initiating")
    OfflineRebuildStateInprogress = OfflineRebuildState("inprogress")
    OfflineRebuildStateCanceled   = OfflineRebuildState("canceled")
    OfflineRebuildStateCompleted  = OfflineRebuildState("completed")
    OfflineRebuildStateFailed     = OfflineRebuildState("failed")
  )
  type VolumeStatus struct {
    ...
    // +optional
    ShareState ShareManagerState `json:"shareState"`
    // +optional
    OfflineRebuildState OfflineRebuildState `json:"offlineRebuildState"`
  }
```

## Design

### Implementation Overview

The offline replica rebuild process involves the following steps:

1. Identify replicas needed to rebuild in the detached volume.

> 2. Initiate the rebuild process and update the volume attachment ticket for attaching the volume.

Author: Modified the description to 
`2. Initiate the rebuild process and the volume rebuild controller will update the volume attachment ticket for attaching the volume.`
Thanks.

  | Update | N/A | err error | Trigger volume offline rebuilding | **POST** `/v1/volumes/{VolumeName}?action=offlineRebuilding` |
  | Update | N/A | err error | Cancel volume offline rebuilding | **POST** `/v1/volumes/{VolumeName}?action=cancelOfflineRebuilding` |

```golang
type VolumeSpec struct {
  ...
  // The backup target name that the volume will be backed up to or is synced.
  // +optional
  BackupTargetName string `json:"backupTargetName"`
  // The flag that trigger the offline replica rebuilding when volume is detached.
  // +optional
  OfflineRebuild bool `json:"offlineRebuild"`
}
```

### User Stories

- Users want to rebuild replicas while the volume is offline to ensure maintain data redundancy.
- Users want to start a workload with the volume when the volume is in offline replica rebuild process.
- The offline rebuilding process will still work after the cluster goes down and comes back up.

### User Experience In Detail

#### Trigger An Individual Volume Offline Rebuilding

When users want to rebuild a volume detached:

- By the Longhorn GUI
  1. Access the Longhorn GUI and navigate to the `Volume` page.
  2. Select the volume that needs offline replica rebuilding.

>   3. Click on the `Operation` dropdown and choose `Offline Replica Rebuild`.

Reviewer 2: After selecting the operation, `spec.offlineRebuild` is set to true. Once this setting is enabled, users no longer need to manually trigger the operation and it will occur automatically whenever volumes are detached.

If this is the case, the UI operation may not serve much purpose. Would it be sufficient to simply allow users to enable offline rebuilding for individual volumes or as a global setting?

Author: >If this is the case, the UI operation may not serve much purpose. If this is the case, the UI operation may not serve much purpose.

Do you mean that would it be sufficient if we only provided the global setting?
Users can use the global setting to trigger all detached volumes that need to be rebuilt but if users only want some volumes to rebuild, they will need the individual way. cc @derekbit.

  4. The rebuilding volume process will be triggered, and the volume will be attached.
  5. After all replicas are health, the volume will be detached.

- By the CLI with the `kubectl` command:
  1. Use the command `kubectl -n longhorn-system edit volume [volume-name]`
  2. Set the field `Volume.spec.offlineRebuild` `true`.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
  kind: Volume
  metadata:
    ...
    name: [volume-name]
    namespace: longhorn-system
    ...
  spec:
    ...
    numberOfReplicas: 3
    offlineRebuild: true
    replicaAutoBalance: ignored
    ...
  ```

  3. The rebuilding volume process will be triggered, and the volume will be attached.
  4. After all replicas are health, the volume will be detached.

#### Trigger Volumes Offline Rebuilding

When users want to rebuild volumes detached:

- By the Longhorn GUI

>   1. Access the Longhorn GUI and navigate to the `Setting` > `General` page.

Reviewer 2: Make sure the setting of individual volume supersedes the global one.

Author: Yes, if users use the API `cancelOfflineRebuilding` to cancel the offline rebuilding, it will be canceled and it can be restarted by the API `offlineRebuilding`. But it might be restarted after an hour for the setting controller polling interval.

  2. Check the checkbox `Automatically Offline Replica Rebuilding`.
  3. Click the bottom `Save` button.

- By the CLI with the `kubectl` command:

  ```shell
  kubectl -n longhorn patch setting auto-offline-replica-rebuilding --type=merge -p '{"value": "true"}'
  ```

#### The CSI Attach Request During Volume Offline Rebuilding

When the offline rebuilding process is triggered or in progress:

1. Users try to start the workload with the Longhorn volume that is in offline rebuilding process.
2. The CSI attaching volume request is received, and canceling offline rebuilding process request will be sent and return an error.
3. After the offline rebuilding process is canceled, the volume will be detached.

> 4. When receiving the CSI attaching volume request again, the volume will be attached to the request node.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by `receiving the request again`? I thought everything should be handled by Longhorn volume attachment with the priority concept.

Author: I would use the API `cancelOfflineRebuilding` to remove the volume rebuild VA ticket if we receive a CSI attach request because the volume replicas will be rebuilt while the workload works.

>I thought everything should be handled by Longhorn volume attachment with the priority concept.

Yes, we can handle it at the volume attachment controller with the priority concept but we might handle the volume rebuild VA ticket again after scaling down the workload.

Author: Handled by the volume attachment controller with the ticket priority.

#### Cluster Goes Down And Comes Back Up During Volume Offline Rebuilding

Users should be aware that the rebuilding process will restart if it does not finish before the cluster goes down.

## Design

### Implementation Overview

The offline replica rebuild process involves the following steps:

> - The global setting `auto-offline-replica-rebuilding` is `true`:

Reviewer 2: Suggest removing `auto`, as `offline-replica-rebuilding` already implies that the operation is automatic.

Author: Modified. Thanks

    <img src="./image/volume-offline-rebuild-setting-controller-flow.png" alt="volume offline rebuilding states flow" width="35%" />

- The field `Spec.OfflineRebuild` of the detached volume is set `true` by the Longhorn GUI, API or CLI:
  1. The volume rebuild controller will update the volume attachment ticket for attaching the volume if rebuilding is necessary.
  2. The rebuilding process will be started automatically by the volume controller.
  3. The volume rebuild controller will check the volume and replicas of the volume status when the volume is updated.
  4. If the rebuilt replicas are healthy (healthy replica count is equal to `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplica` or healthy replica count is equal to ready worker nodes if it is less than `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplica`), the volume rebuild controller will update the volume attachment ticket to detach the volume and the process is done.  
![volume offline rebuilding volume rebuild controller flow](./image/volume-offline-rebuild-vrb-controller-flow.png)

- The CSI attach request during volume offline rebuilding

>   1. The canceling volume offline rebuilding will be sent by the API (set `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild` `false`).

Reviewer 2: If the global is set to true, what's the value of this field after this operation? Will it be reset to true again?

You might just use the priority of VolumeAttachement to determine if the attachment for rebuilding should be canceled instead, if there is a CSI attachment request. I wonder if we already have a similar case in the implementation for reference.

Author: If there is a CSI VA ticket, the field `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild` will be false.

>You might just use the priority of VolumeAttachement to determine if the attachment for rebuilding should be canceled instead, if there is a CSI attachment request. I wonder if we already have a similar case in the implementation for reference.

I will do another test to check if the priority of VA works and update the LEP.

### Goals

- Users can perform volume offline rebuilding when volumes are detached by a global setting `offline-replica-rebuilding`.
- Users can perform volume offline rebuilding when an individual volume is detached by the API or the `kubectl` command.
- Users can cancel the offline replica rebuild process for an individual volume.

## Proposal

### API changes

Introduce new volume Action APIs `offlineRebuilding` and `cancelOfflineRebuilding`, and a new field `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild`:

  | API | Input | Output | Comments | HTTP Endpoint |
  | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
  | Update | N/A | err error | Trigger volume offline rebuilding | **POST** `/v1/volumes/{VolumeName}?action=offlineRebuilding` |
  | Update | N/A | err error | Cancel volume offline rebuilding | **POST** `/v1/volumes/{VolumeName}?action=cancelOfflineRebuilding` |

```golang
type VolumeSpec struct {
  ...
  // The backup target name that the volume will be backed up to or is synced.
  // +optional
  BackupTargetName string `json:"backupTargetName"`
  // The flag that trigger the offline replica rebuilding when volume is detached.
  // +optional
  OfflineRebuild bool `json:"offlineRebuild"`
}
```

> ### User Stories

Reviewer 3: What happens if an offline rebuild fails? How will failures be logged and surfaced to users?

Author: Added a section to describe the failed volume during offline rebuilding.
It will stop the rebuilding process (remote the volume rebuild VA ticket and set `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild` to false), and users should handle the salvage manually.
The volume rebuild controller should record the cancelation when the volume becomes faulted.
I'm not sure we need to make an event to warn users.

Author: Added sections to describe the volume faulted during rebuilding.

- Users want to rebuild replicas while the volume is offline to ensure maintain data redundancy.
- Users want to start a workload with the volume when the volume is in offline replica rebuild process.
- The offline rebuilding process will still work after the cluster goes down and comes back up.

### User Experience In Detail

#### Trigger An Individual Volume Offline Rebuilding

When users want to rebuild a volume detached:

- By the Longhorn GUI
  1. Access the Longhorn GUI and navigate to the `Volume` page.
  2. Select the volume that needs offline replica rebuilding.
  3. Click on the `Operation` dropdown and choose `Offline Replica Rebuild`.

>   4. The rebuilding volume process will be triggered, and the volume will be attached.

Author: Consulting with @PhanLe1010.

>   4. The rebuilding volume process will be triggered, and the volume will be attached.

Reviewer 4: I think attach the volume under maintainance mode for rebuilding is good enough

>   5. After all replicas are health, the volume will be detached.

Author: Modified. Thanks.

> - By the CLI with the `kubectl` command:

Author: Modified. Thanks.

  1. Use the command `kubectl -n longhorn-system edit volume [volume-name]`

>   2. Set the field `Volume.spec.offlineRebuild` `true`.

Author: Yes. Added a description for that it will be `false` after rebuilding.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
  kind: Volume
  metadata:
    ...
    name: [volume-name]
    namespace: longhorn-system
    ...
  spec:
    ...
    numberOfReplicas: 3
    offlineRebuild: true
    replicaAutoBalance: ignored
    ...
  ```

  3. The rebuilding volume process will be triggered, and the volume will be attached.

>   4. After all replicas are health, the volume will be detached.

Author: Modified. Thanks.

#### Trigger Volumes Offline Rebuilding

When users want to rebuild volumes detached:

- By the Longhorn GUI
  1. Access the Longhorn GUI and navigate to the `Setting` > `General` page.

>   2. Check the checkbox `Automatically Offline Replica Rebuilding`.

Author: Modified. Thanks.

  3. Click the bottom `Save` button.

> - By the CLI with the `kubectl` command:

Author: Modified. Thanks.

  ```shell
  kubectl -n longhorn patch setting offline-replica-rebuilding --type=merge -p '{"value": "true"}'
  ```

#### The CSI Attach Request During Volume Offline Rebuilding

When the offline rebuilding process is triggered or in progress:

1. Users try to start the workload with the Longhorn volume that is in offline rebuilding process.
2. When The CSI attaching volume request is received and the CSI volume attachment ticket is created, the volume rebuild VA ticket will be preempted by the CSI VA ticket.

> 3. The offline rebuilding process will be canceled because the volume rebuild VA ticket is preempted.

Reviewer 3: Will the user be warned about the rebuild cancellation?

Author: The volume rebuild controller should record the cancelation when the volume becomes faulted. I'm not sure we need to make an event to warn users.

Author: Added the description to add an event or logs in the controller (longhorn-manager pods).

4. After the offline rebuilding process is canceled, the volume will be detached.
5. The volume will be attached to the request node for the CSI VA ticket.

#### Cluster Goes Down And Comes Back Up During Volume Offline Rebuilding

Users should be aware that the rebuilding process will restart if it does not finish before the cluster goes down.

## Design

### Implementation Overview

The offline replica rebuild process involves the following steps:

- The global setting `offline-replica-rebuilding` is `true`:

>   1. Identify replicas needed to rebuild in the detached volumes and the field `Spec.OfflineRebuild` of the volume will be set `true` at the setting controller.

Author: Added. Thanks.

>   2. The volume rebuild controller will update the volume attachment ticket for attaching the volume that `Spec.OfflineRebuild` is set `true` at the setting controller.

Author: > Also provide an example of the ticket.

Added. Thanks.

> I'm a bit confused. When are the volume's `Spec.OfflineRebuild` set to true or false? Need to address this is in the Implementation.

Modified the descriptions.

The field `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild` will be set to `true` by the setting controller when the setting `offline-rebuilding` is modified to `true`

After the rebuilding is done or canceled, the volume rebuild controller will set the field `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild` to `false`.

  3. The rebuilding process will be started automatically by the volume controller.
  4. The volume rebuild controller will check the volume and replicas of the volume status when the volume is updated.

>   5. If the rebuilt replicas are healthy, the volume rebuild controller will remove the volume rebuild VA ticket to detach the volume and the process is done.  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  5. If the volume is healthy, the volume rebuild controller will remove the volume rebuild VA ticket to detach the volume and the process is done.  
```

Author: Something volume will not be healthy if the `numberOfReplica` is always bigger than the number of the ready worker nodes.

    <img src="./image/volume-offline-rebuild-setting-controller-flow.png" alt="volume offline rebuilding states flow" width="35%" />

> - The field `Spec.OfflineRebuild` of the detached volume is set `true` by the Longhorn GUI, API or CLI:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The field `Spec.OfflineRebuild` of the detached volume is set `true` by the Longhorn UI, API or CLI:
```

Author: Modified. Thanks.

>   1. The volume rebuild controller will update the volume attachment ticket for attaching the volume if rebuilding is necessary.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  1. The volume rebuild controller will update the VA ticket for attaching the volume if rebuilding is necessary.
```

nit: You can replica volume attachment with VA in the LEP.

Author: Modified. Thanks.

  2. The rebuilding process will be started automatically by the volume controller.

>   3. The volume rebuild controller will check the volume and replicas of the volume status when the volume is updated.
>   4. If the rebuilt replicas are healthy (healthy replica count is equal to `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplica` or healthy replica count is equal to ready worker nodes if it is less than `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplica`), the volume rebuild controller will remove the volume rebuild VA ticket to detach the volume and the process is done.  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  3. The volume rebuild controller will check the volume and replicas of the volume status when the volume is updated.
  4. If the volume is healthy (healthy replica count is equal to `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplica` or healthy replica count is equal to ready worker nodes if it is less than `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplica`), the volume rebuild controller will remove the volume rebuild VA ticket to detach the volume and the process is done.  
```

If the rebuilding is somehow always failed, does Longhorn have any backoff mechanism?

Author: If the volume becomes faulted, it will stop the rebuilding process. Added the section to describe this scenario.

![volume offline rebuilding volume rebuild controller flow](./image/volume-offline-rebuild-vrb-controller-flow.png)

- The CSI attach request during volume offline rebuilding

>   1. Lower the volume rebuild VA ticket priority to `1000`.

Reviewer 3: Suggest briefly explaining why `1000` was chosen here instead of other priority levels.

Author: Need to be lower than CSI VA ticket `900`.

Reviewer 4: The higher number has higher priority.

I think offline rebuilding should be 800. Same value as we picked before 
```
	AttachedPriorityLevelVolumeRebuildingController       = 800
```

Author: Yes, @PhanLe1010 is correct. Removed the description and kept the `AttachedPriorityLevelVolumeRebuildingController ` priority `800`
Thanks @PhanLe1010.

  2. When The CSI attaching volume request is received and the CSI VA ticket is created, the volume rebuild VA ticket will be preempted by the CSI VA ticket.

>   3. The volume rebuild controller will remove the volume rebuild VA ticket if there is a CSI VA ticket.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  3. The volume rebuild controller will remove the volume rebuild VA ticket if there is a CSI VA ticket.
```

Do we need to remove the ticket from the VA?

Author: I think yes or it might reattach the volume to a node when scaling down the workload.

  4. The volume will be detached when the volume rebuild VA ticket is removed, then the volume will be attached for the CSI VA ticket.

- Handle the cluster goes down and comes back up during offline rebuilding

>   - The setting controller will check the value of the `offline-replica-rebuilding` setting and identify detached volumes that need to be rebuilt when the cluster comes back up.

Reviewer 3: Could you explain more about what the setting controller's action is there besides checking the `offline-replica-rebuilding` setting and identifying volumes?

Author: Added. Thanks.

  - The volume rebuild controller will examine all volumes:
    - If `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild` is `false`, remove the volume rebuild VA ticket for the volume.
    - If `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild` is `true` and there is no CSI VA ticket:
      - Add the volume rebuild VA ticket of the volume if it does not exist.
      - Monitor the volume rebuilding status if the volume rebuild VA ticket exists.

> 

Author: Added the section to describe the process if the volume becomes faulted.

> ### Test plan

Reviewer 3: Suggest also to include tests that cover both node reboot and cluster reboot scenarios.

Author: Added. Thanks.

# Volume Offline Rebuilding

## Summary

This enhancement adds support for offline replica rebuild functionality for Longhorn volumes. It will allow rebuilding replicas while the volume is detached, enhancing the volume availability and reliability.

### Related Issues

- https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/8443

## Motivation

### Goals

> - Users can perform volume offline rebuilding when volumes are detached by a global setting `offline-replica-rebuilding`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Longhorn can automatically perform volume offline rebuilding when volumes are detached by enabling the global setting `offline-replica-rebuilding`.
```

Author: Modified. Thanks

> - Users can perform volume offline rebuilding when an individual volume is detached by the API or the `kubectl` command.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Users can manually trigger volume offline rebuilding when an individual volume is detached by the API or the `kubectl` command.
```

Author: Modified. Thanks

> - Users can cancel the offline replica rebuild process for an individual volume.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Users can manually cancel the offline replica rebuilding process for an individual volume.
```

Author: Modified. Thanks

## Proposal

### API changes

Introduce new volume Action APIs `offlineRebuilding` and `cancelOfflineRebuilding`, and a new field `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild`:

  | API | Input | Output | Comments | HTTP Endpoint |
  | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
  | Update | N/A | err error | Trigger volume offline rebuilding | **POST** `/v1/volumes/{VolumeName}?action=offlineRebuilding` |
  | Update | N/A | err error | Cancel volume offline rebuilding | **POST** `/v1/volumes/{VolumeName}?action=cancelOfflineRebuilding` |

```golang
type VolumeSpec struct {
  ...
  // The backup target name that the volume will be backed up to or is synced.
  // +optional
  BackupTargetName string `json:"backupTargetName"`
  // The flag that trigger the offline replica rebuilding when volume is detached.
  // +optional
  OfflineRebuild bool `json:"offlineRebuild"`
}
```

### User Stories

> - Users want to rebuild replicas while the volume is offline to ensure maintain data redundancy.

Reviewer 5: WDYT?

```suggestion
- Users want to automatically or manually trigger replica rebuilding while a volume is offline to ensure maintain data redundancy.
```

Author: Modified. Thanks

- Users want to start a workload with the volume when the volume is in offline replica rebuild process.

> - The offline rebuilding process will still work after the cluster goes down and comes back up.

Reviewer 5: Only cluster? 
Does the implementation considers the node down case? If yes, add node down here.
```suggestion
- The offline rebuilding process will still work after the cluster goes down and comes back up.
```

Author: Added. Thanks.

### User Experience In Detail

> #### Trigger An Individual Volume Offline Rebuilding

Author: Modified. Thanks.

> When users want to rebuild a volume detached:

Author: Modified. Thanks.

- By the Longhorn UI
  1. Access the Longhorn UI and navigate to the `Volume` page.
  2. Select the volume that needs offline replica rebuilding.
  3. Click on the `Operation` dropdown and choose `Offline Replica Rebuild`.
  4. The rebuilding volume process will be triggered, and the volume will be attached.
  5. After all replicas are healthy, the volume will be detached.

- By `kubectl` command:
  1. Use the command `kubectl -n longhorn-system edit volume [volume-name]`
  2. Set the field `Volume.spec.offlineRebuild` to `true`.
  3. The field `Volume.spec.offlineRebuild` will be back to `false` after rebuilding is done.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
  kind: Volume
  metadata:
    ...
    name: [volume-name]
    namespace: longhorn-system
    ...
  spec:
    ...
    numberOfReplicas: 3
    offlineRebuild: true
    replicaAutoBalance: ignored
    ...
  ```

  3. The rebuilding volume process will be triggered, and the volume will be attached.
  4. After all replicas are healthy, the volume will be detached.

> #### Trigger Volumes Offline Rebuilding

Author: Modified. Thanks.

> When users want to rebuild volumes detached:

Author: Modified. Thanks.

When the offline rebuilding process is triggered or in progress:

1. Users try to start the workload with the Longhorn volume that is in offline rebuilding process.
2. When The CSI attaching volume request is received and the CSI VA ticket is created, the volume rebuild VA ticket will be preempted by the CSI VA ticket.
3. The offline rebuilding process will be canceled because the volume rebuild VA ticket is preempted.
4. After the offline rebuilding process is canceled, the volume will be detached.
5. The volume will be attached to the request node for the CSI VA ticket.
6. The workload can start to use the volume after the volume attachment.

#### Cluster Goes Down And Comes Back Up During Volume Offline Rebuilding

Users should be aware that the rebuilding process will restart if it does not finish before the cluster goes down.

#### A Worker Node Down During Volume Offline Rebuilding

The offline rebuilding will continue until healthy replicas equals to the number of ready worker nodes, as long as it is less than `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplica`.

#### Volume Becomes Faulted During Offline Rebuilding

- The rebuilding process will be canceled.

> - Users need to resolve the issues causing the volume to be faulted before initiating a salvage.

Author: Added. Thanks.

Users should be aware that the rebuilding process will restart if it does not finish before the cluster goes down.

#### A Worker Node Down During Volume Offline Rebuilding

- The offline rebuilding will continue until the number of healthy replicas equals to `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplicas`.
- The detached volumes will start the offline rebuilding process if the number of healthy replicas does not equal to `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplicas`.

#### Volume Becomes Faulted During Offline Rebuilding

- The rebuilding process will be canceled.
- Users need to resolve the issues causing the volume to be faulted before initiating a salvage.

## Design

### Implementation Overview

The volume rebuild VA ticket example:

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: VolumeAttachment
...
spec:
  attachmentTickets:
    volume-rebuilding-controller-[volume-name]:
      generation: 0
      id: volume-rebuilding-controller-[volume-name]
      nodeID: workerNode01
      parameters:
        disableFrontend: any
      type: volume-rebuilding-controller
  volume: [volume-name]
status:
  ...
```

The offline replica rebuild process involves the following steps:

> - The global setting `offline-replica-rebuilding` is `true`:

Reviewer 3: Suggest adding a `Setting` section to cover the new setting.

Author: Separate the cases in the `Implementation Overview` section. Thanks.

>   1. The field `Spec.OfflineRebuild` of all volumes will be set to `true` by the setting controller.

Reviewer 3: What happens to those individual volumes that were edited with a value expected to differ from the global setting?

Author: All volumes' `Spec.OfflineRebuild` field will be changed to the global setting `offlie-replica-rebuilding` value when the global setting `offlie-replica-rebuilding` is modified, regardless of its previous value of the individual volume.

>might differ from the global setting changes?

Only when users manually modify the volume's `Spec.OfflineRebuild` field.

Modified the description. Thanks.

Reviewer 3: > 5. The field `Volume.Spec.OfflineRebuild` will `NOT` be set to `false`, and it may differ from the value of the global setting `offline-replica-rebuilding`.

A bit confused. Would the user expect `Spec.OfflineRebuild` to persist? Why not use `ignored`, as is done with other settings that allow individual settings per volume?

Author: >Why not use ignored, as is done with other settings that allow individual settings per volume?

Good idea.
Modified the field `Spec.OfflineRebuild` to `VolumeOfflineRebuildState` string with three states `enabled`, `disabled` and `ignored`.
The the `Spec.OfflineRebuild` field will not be affected by the global setting `offline-replica-rebuilding` if users set the `Spec.OfflineRebuild` field to `ignored` 
Thanks.

Author: The LEP is updated. @c3y1huang Could you review it again to check if the `volume.spec.offlineRebuild` field is working as you mentioned? Thanks

Users should be aware that the rebuilding process will restart if it does not finish before the cluster goes down.

#### A Worker Node Down During Volume Offline Rebuilding

- The offline rebuilding will continue until the number of healthy replicas equals to `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplicas`.
- The detached volumes will start the offline rebuilding process if the number of healthy replicas does not equal to `Volume.Spec.NumberOfReplicas`.

#### Volume Becomes Faulted During Offline Rebuilding

- The rebuilding process will be canceled.
- Users need to resolve the issues causing the volume to be faulted before initiating a salvage.

## Design

### Implementation Overview

The volume rebuild VA ticket example:

```yaml
apiVersion: longhorn.io/v1beta2
kind: VolumeAttachment
...
spec:
  attachmentTickets:
    volume-rebuilding-controller-[volume-name]:
      generation: 0
      id: volume-rebuilding-controller-[volume-name]
      nodeID: workerNode01
      parameters:
        disableFrontend: any
      type: volume-rebuilding-controller
  volume: [volume-name]
status:
  ...
```

#### Global Setting `offline-replica-rebuilding`

- The setting `offline-replica-rebuilding` is `true`:

>   1. The setting controller will set the `Spec.OfflineRebuild` field of all volumes to `enabled`, regardless of its previous value.

Author: Modified. Thanks.
This sentanece is removed.
